Okay, so go back to your index html here,
where it says write code here.
We're gonna say,
const App = arrow function,
this is the ligature I
was talking to you about.
So if you see some weird combined
symbols that's what this is.
So this is actually an equal sign and
a angle bracket put together and
my font combines them into one glyph,
right?
So that's what a code ligature is.
And that's covered in
like the intro section or
the introduction part of the course if
you wanna figure out how to enable that.
So we're gonna make this
function called App and
we're gonna say return
react dot create element.
We're gonna make a div, this data is
gonna have no additional parameters into,
so we're just gonna pass
an empty object here.
And then we're gonna say
react.create element.
With an h1 here, again,
no per additional parameters and
we're going to put just
Some Texas has adopt me, And
an exclamation point like that,
yeah, no, no semicolon there.
So, from there, we're gonna go
underneath here I'm gonna say,
ReactDom.render, react.createElements.
We're gonna pass this app
function that we just created.
And then,
after that we're gonna say document.get
element by ID Route,
make this a bit smaller so
you can see a bit better.
All right, So
this we basically just made
the hello world of react here.
And let's talk about what we actually did.
We created a component called App or
like a class of components right.
In my analogy like to imagine this as
basically you have forged like a rubber
stamp then you can go just make as
many apps as you possibly want right.
So you can create as many instances
of that class that you want too.
If you want to use object oriented
programming lingo which I do not so
I will not be referring to that further.
But the idea here is now I have a reusable
component called app that every time I say
hey give me an app it's going to give
you a div with an h1 inside of it.
And that h1 is gonna say adopt me right,
so what do we expect to do?
CreateElement basically creates
a new instance of something.
So in this case, we're creating
an instance of a div, and then here,
we're creating an instance of an h1,
right?
And I can have an arbitrary
amount of those,
notice here I'm using
createElement again with app.
So I'm basically creating an instance of
the app like I'm creating a div here,
I'm creating an app here.
And that's what the kind
of the power of react is,
is that it allows me to create
these reusable components and
I can mix and
match them with basically HTML elements.
So at the end of the day what do I
expect to see when I go look over at
the browser now?
I expect to see a div with
an h1 inside of it and
inside of that h1 is going
to say adopt me right.
Here I'm just telling it
where do you wanna put it?
And I'm putting it here in the document
dot get element by the root,
which is going to be
putting it right there.
It's gonna blow away not rendered and we
should see a div with an h1 inside of it
says adopt me, so
let's see if we are correct.
So we do.
And it's just styling
it with a CSS right so
it's making a background image and
then hiding the text.
We can see here inside of route
a see a div with an h1 that says
adopt me now you might
be thinking that's neat.
Could have done that with a lot less
JavaScript with just some HTML,
we'll get there, right?
But this is just like the hello world
of creating something with React.
And notice here we don't have anything
else besides the libraries and
a little bit of code here.
There's no build step,
there's nothing it's just raw react here.
Now I'm gonna say no one
writes react like this.
I like the very beginning of react there
were some people like this is the way and
we should all do it this way.
And they were wrong and
they all change their mind, right?
Everyone writes it with JSX, which
we'll get to here in a little bit, but
there was a hot second of rebellion,
it was invoked to be cool.
This app is a component we made and
it's just a function, right?
So if you wanna make a component function,
just make sure that it's returning
the result of React dot Create Element.
That's kind of like the contract
Have something here, right?
And this is basically just a render
function so that whenever you run app,
it's gonna give you back markup,
that's the contract there.
These render functions have to be fast,
right because react wants to
rerender itself very frequently.
Whenever you change something about
your React app, it's gonna rerender it.
So you don't wanna put really expensive
slow calls inside of your render
statements.
You wanna do that outside of
your render statement and
then use results inside of your animals.
We'll talk about that when we get there
but just I want you to stick in your brain
right now is like these functions
have to be fast, right?
Into the functional programming Lingo,
they need to be pure that they
need to have like no side effects.
So you don't wanna do something like
say like lead counter equals zero.
You can don't have to follow this along,
you can say counter plus plus here.
This would be a side effect,
right because it's keeping track of state
outside of the render function, right?
So this counter would be going
up every time that it renders,
this is something that you don't wanna do,
right?
You want to keep all the effects inside
of the same that'll make more sense as we
go along.
But just keep that in mind is like I
don't wanna be messing with ambient state
whenever I'm in a render function
there's different places for that.
There's two types of components
class components and
function components we'll talk about
class components later in the class.
This is a function component, so
what's the point is empty object.
You can also put null here let me triple
check to see that that is actually true.
But I'm pretty sure you can just put
a null there and it will be just as happy,
you can put a null there.
This is where you put if you wanna give it
a class name or you wanna give it an ID.
So if I wanted let's say I wanted this
h1 here to be called the brand right,
what I do is I go here here to the h1 and
I would say ID brand.
Now if we come back over here and
we render it,
notice that I have the id brand here.
So it's whatever stuff you wanna be
passed into that child component, right.
Or you can put class name there or
something like that.
Notice here with the credo an app here I
omitted everything it's because it has no
children.
But you absolutely could say no here or
object and we'll get into that here
in just a second but
you can also pass stuff into that as well.
But if you don't have anything to pass and
it has no children and it has doesn't
have any properties to it, you can
just leave them out there optional.
Or if you want the computer science term
for its variablarity which just means
it has a different amount of
parameters you can pass to it.
Another example that came up
while I was writing this course,
is that because people
get confused about like.
What's the difference between
app here as a function,
an app here being rendered as an instance.
The analogy that came to my head is,
this is like creating like
a new type of car, right?
So if I'm Honda, this is like me
creating civic as a line of cars, right?
And then here, this is like the factory
producing one civic, right,
so you have one civic car or
the civic as the line of cars, right.
This is creating a new line of cars,
this is creating one
individual instance of that.
To take the analogy even further, you
can actually pass parameters into it so
you can have different
options on your car, right.
Different options on your civic the same
kind of idea here was that a helpful
analogy?
All right, I felt really smart when I
thought of it so I was gonna test it out.
>> Specify it's the React DOM dot render
that's making that instance of the car.
>> It's actually the createElements,
which is like-
>> Is it?
>> And then the ReactDom that renders
basically take what this produces and
just barf it onto the DOM.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah, this is actually, what's actually
taking whatever your tree you created and
rendering that out to the DOM.
So you can basically say,
const myRenderedApp And
then here,
you'd be saying myRenderedApp, right?
So this is actually what's stamping out,
this is what's creating the popping
it out of the factory, right?
And this is what's actually like
putting it onto the road, I guess,
would be the best part of that analogy.
So you're gonna call react DOM dot
render exactly once in your app.
Back, you technically
could call it more but
let's say exactly once because I've never
had to do and I've written a lot of React.
It's possible to do it different times,
but
you're gonna call react dot
Create Element 1000s, 10000s of times.
Hammer that point because it's confusing,
so feels confusing because it is.
So heads up here, react DOM dot render
they're changing how this works
in React 18 it's going to
be called Create route.
It's going to work basically the same, but
if you're moving on to react 18 just be
aware that the, shape of that call
is gonna change a little bit.
And you have to do it to opt in to
like the new performance stuff that
they're doing.